Pizza Dough:

Ingredients:

250 g Water (Idk. This may or may not be correct. Just lower hydration = easy to work with and higher hydration is an airy crust, so just gotta figure out consistency later)
260 g All-purpose (AP) flour
200 g Whole Wheat Flour
100 g Levain
30 g Vital Wheat Gluten
16 g Extra Virgin Olive Oil (EVOO)
10 g fine sea salt
4 g Active Dry Yeast
1 g Nutritional Yeast

Preparation:

Add Flour, Gluten, EVOO, salt, and yeast to a bowl. Mix until combined and set aside. 

In a large mixing bowl, add water and levain, and stir until homogenous. Add dry ingredients to the mixture and mix until the flour has absorbed all the water and the lumps are mostly gone (4-5 minutes at low speed on a mixer, about 10-11 if mixing by hand). 

Let gluten relax for 7 minutes. During this time  prepare containers for your dough balls. I suggest  getting out four squares of wax wrap and setting aside, then spreading EVOO on the bottom and around the sides of four 16 oz deli cups.

After the 7 minutes have elapsed if mixing by hand, roll dough out onto lightly floured work surface and for 10 minutes or until dough is silky and springs back after pushing a finger into it. If using a mixer, mix at medium low speed 4 minutes. you should be able to stretch a piece of dough thin enough that light passes through it without tearing (this is called the window test for mysterious reasons).

Divide the dough evenly into four parts, and repeatedly fold the corners the dough portion down and in toward the center, going around the outside only once (four tucks per ball). Fun fact: This pre-shaping step stretches the gluten matrix in the dough into a swirl in the outer edges of your dough balls which helps make a nice looking pizza).

Place dough ball in prepared containers and let sit under a damp towel at room temp for 1 hr or place covered in the fridge overnight.

After resting and when dough is at room temperature, turn the dough balls out onto a lightly floured work surface, and shape into tight balls making sure to keep the same side of the dough facing up. (Joshua Weissman has a good clip of this technique in nearly every video)

Return dough balls to deli cups, and apply thin layer of EVOO to the top and cover with wax wrap to keep the air from drying off the top of the crust when being stored in the fridge or freezer. Flavor will develop over time.


